hi guys Kirk here with Kurt's giordano
plaster me today answer question I did a
video about a year and a half ago and
man I got a lot of response because I
was showing hard steel child finish and
a lot of people emailed me and say well
why would I do it if it cracks like an
egg
I didn't clarify it very well that day
two years ago we were tired plus uh I'm
an applicator first and I'm narrate or
second I'm just learning how to explain
things where everybody could understand
show you something okay you could see
the the wall here this is a hard steel
finish it's a to coach system and I tell
people when I do a to coach system we
are going to get some hairline cracks if
you ask for a hard steel child finish
and people will say why I'll explain it
okay number one what we just put this
second coat on and see all these these
are Darby lines what what I generally do
Darby the wall Chu and plumb and then
once it's where I want it this walls
open now it's it can breathe let me show
you another two more things guys alright
if I take a hard rubber float and I
compress it we push it in now if that's
not smooth like what they have but this
was called a hard rubber float finish
and what that does that wall can still
breathe or you take a green sponge float
now I'm going to hit all my joints
anyway you see how this water that's
going on it that wall again can still
breathe and if a wall can breathe it's
less likely to hairline but what I
failed to say in that last video is
getting my joints right here but what I
fail to say is if you do a two coat
steel child finish on a wood wall what
generally happens especially with new
construction is okay we're southwest
you're the ho bay area we're southwest
here now this wall its existing plywood
they the reason they did this is four
they wanted to enlarge it in the door so
we have existing apply with this plywood
has cured meaning a lot of jobs will go
to and it has brand new plywood and
sometimes you can't even get a knife
between the gaps where the plywood is
and what that means is that wall when
the Sun beats down on it is going to
expand okay so this wall in particular
the Sun is going to beat on this wall
it's going to heat up the plywood and if
that plywood has moisture in it because
it's green and most houses do it's going
to expand and when that expands just you
can't see it when it expands it tends to
put a hairline hairline cracks in a to
coach system the stucco won't crack by
itself if we go over say brick cinder
block any kind of concrete and we steel
child finish guess what
it rarely cracks unless that wall is
moving but it rarely cracks here what
I'm doing is now that I got my joints
right I'm hard I'm steel trowel
finishing it meaning I'm pushing all the
sand and it we're just we're just giving
it some lines like what they have here
there's this pretty imperfect so okay
this means this wall cannot breathe
anymore
a bad thing it just can't breathe so
it's just wall the plywood or when the
wall heats up it has a tendency to
hairline but again it is not the stucco
that hair lawns hair lines on its own
unless it's a brand new house and you
put that added weight such as 20 tons of
stucco then it could hairline because
the added weight is pulling it down it's
called the dead weight so I thought I'd
explain that a little bit better than I
did last time because a lot of folks who
were calling me saying Kirk why the hell
would anybody want to do a to code
system on the
house if it's gonna crack the stucco is
not cracking it's the plywood in there
sometimes even the studs will twist I
wanted to clear that up guys because
again stucco will not just crack on its
own it's the plywood expanding which
then creates a hairline finish and
another question everybody asked me I
get about two emails per week because of
YouTube stuff I had a fella do a two
coat system Santa Barbara on my house
and at airline that same thing when you
do a Santa Barbara smooth mission
finished your trialing it down like
therefore that wall can't breathe and if
when when the wall expands in that
plywood does expand that's what creates
the cracks in a Santa Barbara smooth
mission finished that is the number one
finish for hairline crack they've got
nothing to do with application it's got
more to do with the walls themselves
expanding anyway I thought I'd point
that out because a lot of people have
been calling me and I've been trying to
type that in I thought he'll why not
just do a video show it anyway my name
is Kirk I'm with Kirk Giordano
plastering we're gonna get busy and
finish this hard steel ciao finish we
thank you for watching and as usual
we'll see you guys on the next one once
again folks we thank you for watching
and I really enjoy all your comments if
you guys like this video please click
the like button down below and also if
you enjoy what we do subscribe to our
channel so we can keep making these
videos for you my name is Kirk and J we
thank you for watching and from the
entire Jordano family we'll see on the
next one